spring data elasticsearch (#1011)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-12-06-spring-data-elasticsearch.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "A Quick Guide to Elasticsearch with Spring Data and Spring Boot"
author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor
communities: [java]
description: ""
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
---

> For sure you have heard about Elasticsearch or the Elastic Stack. It seems it started as a search engine based on Lucene, an open-source search engine library built by Shay Banon to index his wife's cooking recipes. From the early days, Elasticsearch has gone a long way and evolved into the Elastic Stack, a great suite for taking data from any source, search, analyze and visualize it in near real-time. So Elasticsearch is a distributed document store, data is serialized as JSON documents and stored distributed across cluster nodes. The _inverted index_ is a data structure that lists every unique word that appears in any document, and also the documents each word appears in. This gives support to fast full-text searches, a feature not supported or partially supported by database engines. The index is a collection of documents and each document is a collection of fields. In turn, each field can be indexed in an optimal data structure, for example, an inverted index for text fields, but a BKD tree for a numeric field.

Reviewer: This paragraph is kinda like a wall of text when you start reading the post. Is it possible to break it up into two paragraphs?

Author: Done

How can be Elasticsearch integrated into a Spring Boot Application? What are the options for adding Elasticsearch to a Java application? This post will give you a quick introduction to Elasticsearch integration options.

**Prerequisites**:

- [HTTPie](https://httpie.io/)
- [JHipster 7](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/)
- [Java 11+](https://openjdk.java.net/install/index.html)
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents

> {:toc}

Reviewer: You might want to add a small section here that shows how to install JHipster and specify the exact version. I think this is important since the instructions will be different for v7.5 and v7.6. It looks like we broke some compatibility between the two by upgrading to Spring Boot 2.6 in v7.6.

Author: I added a brief comment about JHipster quick setup in the "Build an application ..." section

## Elasticsearch integration options for Spring Boot

For Java applications including Spring Boot applications, Elasticsearch provides the following [clients](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html) for integration:

- [**Java Transport Client**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-api/current/index.html) Deprecated in Elasticsearch 7.0.0. Provides a client object to execute all operations asynchronously, accepting a listener or returning a future.

- [**Java REST Client**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-rest/7.15/index.html) Composed by the Low Level REST Client and the High Level REST Client. The Low Level Client provides load balancing, failover, persistent connections, and request/response trace logging. The High Level Client works on top of the Low Level Client and is the replacement for the `TransportClient`. It depends on the Elasticsearch core and provides synchronous and asynchronous APIs.

> - [**Java API Client**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-api-client/current/index.html) The new client library, independent from Elasticsearch core, provides strongly typed requests and responses, blocking and asynchronous versions for all APIs, fluent builders and functional patterns, jackson and JSON-b support.

Reviewer: Please remove bold from links as we like to have their styles be consistent between posts. I'd also suggest adding a dash or colon after "Client".

Author: Done

## Hello Spring Data Elasticsearch!

> Spring Data Elasticsearch is another integration option that adds the Spring Repository abstraction at the search layer, providing access and search functionality for domain objects stored in Elasticsearch. Operations are sent through a client connected to the Elasticsearch node. With Spring Data, the High Level REST Client is the default client, although Elasticsearch documentation states that this client is deprecated in favor of the Java API Client since version 7.15. The Java API Client is not listed as a supported client yet. The Java Transport Client is still supported in Spring Data, but the general recommendation is to use the High Level Client. Instead of calling the Elasticsearch APIs directly, the repository and rest template abstractions provide a simplified interface for document operations, encapsulating API request/response processing, and exposing a query interface that has multiple implementations for different levels of query complexity. Through the starter dependency, it can also handle client autoconfiguration and automatic document index mapping for simple use cases.

Reviewer: Can this be broken into two or more paragraphs?

Author: Done

> Besides the High Level REST Client support, Spring Data provides the [_Reactive Client_](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/elasticsearch/docs/current/reference/html/#elasticsearch.clients.reactive), a non-official driver based on WebClient, with calls operated directly on the reactive stack. The Reactive Client also depends on the Elasticsearch core as it is designed for handling Elasicsearch request/response types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides the high-level REST client support, Spring Data provides the [Reactive Client](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/elasticsearch/docs/current/reference/html/#elasticsearch.clients.reactive), a non-official driver based on WebClient, with calls operated directly on the reactive stack. The Reactive Client also depends on the Elasticsearch core as it is designed for handling Elasicsearch request/response types.
```

Start by creating a `spring-data-elasticsearch` folder for the project, fetch the application JDL from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-data-elasticsearch-example), and generate the application with JHipster:

```shell
mkdir spring-data-elasticsearch
cd spring-data-elasticsearch
https -d raw.githubusercontent.com/oktadev/okta-spring-data-elasticsearch-example/main/blog-reactive-ms.jdl
jhipster jdl blog-reactive-ms.jdl
```

{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster"
   loginRedirectUri="http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc,http://localhost:8081/login/oauth2/code/oidc,http://localhost:8761/login/oauth2/code/oidc"

>    logoutRedirectUri="http://localhost:8080,http://localhost:8081,http://localhost:8761" %}

Reviewer: TODO for me: Modify the `cli.md` template to allow overriding the defaults for JHipster. These custom URIs currently don't render in the output.

> The JHipster Registry is also a Spring Cloud Config server, and by default, it is configured with the profiles `dev` and `native`, which means the configuration will be provided from the location `docker-compose/central-server-config`. Update `docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml` with the OIDC settings to be shared with all microservices. Set the values from the `.okta.env` file created with Okta CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JHipster Registry is also a Spring Cloud Config server, and by default, it is configured with the profiles `dev` and `native`, which means the configuration will be provided from the location `docker-compose/central-server-config`. Update `docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml` with the OIDC settings to be shared with all microservices. Set the values from the `.okta.env` file the Okta CLI created.
```

```yml
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: {clientId}
            client-secret: {clientSecret}

> ```

Reviewer: Here's a way to do this from the command line. It might help eliminate copy/paste issues.

```
source .okta.env

echo "
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: $SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_PROVIDER_OIDC_ISSUER_URI
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: $SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_ID
            client-secret: $SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET" >> docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml
```

Author: I will add the tip to the post. My .okta.env is created in the root app folder. I did source .okta.env. Please confirm which .okta.env location to use.

Reviewer: You are correct. I removed the `~/` from my `source` command.

> For the experimentation in this tutorial, configure the Kibana interface for Elasticsearch, which will allow visualizations of the Elasticsearch data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the experiment in this tutorial, configure the Kibana interface for Elasticsearch, which will allow visualizations of the Elasticsearch data.
```

Edit `docker-compose/docker-compose.yml` and add the Kibana service like this:

```yml
services:

> ...  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ...  
```

  blog-kibana:

>      image: docker.elastic.co/kibana/kibana:7.13.3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     image: docker.elastic.co/kibana/kibana:7.15.2
```

Needed for JHipster v7.6.

     ports:
       - 5601:5601
     environment:
       ELASTICSEARCH_URL: http://blog-elasticsearch:9200
       ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS: '["http://blog-elasticsearch:9200"]'

> ...       

Reviewer: Remove this ..., I don't think it's necessary

Author: Kibana did not work for me without those lines, I got the error "Unable to retrieve version information from Elasticsearch nodes. getaddrinfo ENOTFOUND elasticsearch"

Reviewer: I just meant remove the trailing "..." at the end of the code block. Otherwise, it gets copied in (it did for me).

Author: Done

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: The Kibana version must match the version of Elasticsearch that's used by the `blog-elasticsearch` image.

```

Also add the following additional configuration to the `blog-elasticsearch` service, to expose the ports to the local host for sending APIs requests:

```yml
services:
  blog-elasticsearch:
    ...
    ports:
      - 9200:9200
```
Remove the Keycloak service at the bottom, as Okta will be used as Identity Provider.

Create each applications' container image:

```shell
cd blog
./mvnw -DskipTests -ntp -Pprod verify jib:dockerBuild
```

```shell
cd gateway
./mvnw -DskipTests -ntp -Pprod verify jib:dockerBuild
```

> Run the architecture with Docker Compose:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run all your images with Docker Compose:
```

```shell
cd ../docker-compose

> docker compose up

Reviewer: I get an error from the gateway here:

```
docker-compose-gateway-1             | 2022-01-26 21:59:43.862 ERROR 1 --- [           main] com.zaxxer.hikari.pool.HikariPool        : HikariPool-1 - Exception during pool initialization.
docker-compose-gateway-1             | 
docker-compose-gateway-1             | org.postgresql.util.PSQLException: The connection attempt failed.
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.postgresql.core.v3.ConnectionFactoryImpl.openConnectionImpl(ConnectionFactoryImpl.java:313)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.postgresql.core.ConnectionFactory.openConnection(ConnectionFactory.java:51)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.postgresql.jdbc.PgConnection.<init>(PgConnection.java:225)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.postgresql.Driver.makeConnection(Driver.java:466)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.postgresql.Driver.connect(Driver.java:265)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at com.zaxxer.hikari.util.DriverDataSource.getConnection(DriverDataSource.java:138)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at com.zaxxer.hikari.pool.PoolBase.newConnection(PoolBase.java:364)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at com.zaxxer.hikari.pool.PoolBase.newPoolEntry(PoolBase.java:206)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at com.zaxxer.hikari.pool.HikariPool.createPoolEntry(HikariPool.java:476)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at com.zaxxer.hikari.pool.HikariPool.checkFailFast(HikariPool.java:561)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at com.zaxxer.hikari.pool.HikariPool.<init>(HikariPool.java:115)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at com.zaxxer.hikari.HikariDataSource.getConnection(HikariDataSource.java:112)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at liquibase.integration.spring.SpringLiquibase.afterPropertiesSet(SpringLiquibase.java:266)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.liquibase.DataSourceClosingSpringLiquibase.afterPropertiesSet(DataSourceClosingSpringLiquibase.java:46)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at tech.jhipster.config.liquibase.AsyncSpringLiquibase.initDb(AsyncSpringLiquibase.java:118)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at tech.jhipster.config.liquibase.AsyncSpringLiquibase.afterPropertiesSet(AsyncSpringLiquibase.java:103)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.beans.factory.support.AbstractAutowireCapableBeanFactory.invokeInitMethods(AbstractAutowireCapableBeanFactory.java:1863)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.beans.factory.support.AbstractAutowireCapableBeanFactory.initializeBean(AbstractAutowireCapableBeanFactory.java:1800)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.beans.factory.support.AbstractAutowireCapableBeanFactory.doCreateBean(AbstractAutowireCapableBeanFactory.java:620)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.beans.factory.support.AbstractAutowireCapableBeanFactory.createBean(AbstractAutowireCapableBeanFactory.java:542)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.beans.factory.support.AbstractBeanFactory.lambda$doGetBean$0(AbstractBeanFactory.java:335)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.beans.factory.support.DefaultSingletonBeanRegistry.getSingleton(DefaultSingletonBeanRegistry.java:234)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.beans.factory.support.AbstractBeanFactory.doGetBean(AbstractBeanFactory.java:333)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.beans.factory.support.AbstractBeanFactory.getBean(AbstractBeanFactory.java:208)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.beans.factory.support.DefaultListableBeanFactory.preInstantiateSingletons(DefaultListableBeanFactory.java:953)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.context.support.AbstractApplicationContext.finishBeanFactoryInitialization(AbstractApplicationContext.java:918)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.context.support.AbstractApplicationContext.refresh(AbstractApplicationContext.java:583)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.boot.web.reactive.context.ReactiveWebServerApplicationContext.refresh(ReactiveWebServerApplicationContext.java:64)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication.refresh(SpringApplication.java:732)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication.refreshContext(SpringApplication.java:414)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication.run(SpringApplication.java:302)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at com.okta.developer.gateway.GatewayApp.main(GatewayApp.java:69)
docker-compose-gateway-1             | Caused by: java.net.UnknownHostException: gateway-postgresql
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at java.base/java.net.AbstractPlainSocketImpl.connect(Unknown Source)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at java.base/java.net.SocksSocketImpl.connect(Unknown Source)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at java.base/java.net.Socket.connect(Unknown Source)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.postgresql.core.PGStream.createSocket(PGStream.java:238)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.postgresql.core.PGStream.<init>(PGStream.java:98)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.postgresql.core.v3.ConnectionFactoryImpl.tryConnect(ConnectionFactoryImpl.java:100)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  at org.postgresql.core.v3.ConnectionFactoryImpl.openConnectionImpl(ConnectionFactoryImpl.java:215)
docker-compose-gateway-1             |  ... 31 common frames omitted
```

If I look at my Docker container for PostgreSQL, I see:

```
PostgreSQL Database directory appears to contain a database; Skipping initialization

2022-01-26 21:58:56.774 UTC [1] FATAL:  database files are incompatible with server

2022-01-26 21:58:56.774 UTC [1] DETAIL:  The data directory was initialized by PostgreSQL version 13, which is not compatible with this version 14.1 (Debian 14.1-1.pgdg110+1).
```

Reviewer: I was able to fix this by removing all my Docker images and trying again with the following command:

```
docker rmi $(docker images -q) --force
```

```

>  Access the JHipster Registry at [**http://localhost:8761**](http://localhost:8761) and sign in with your Okta credentials. When you see all services up and green, go to http://localhost:8080 and sign in with your Okta account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Access the JHipster Registry at `http://localhost:8761` and sign in with your Okta credentials. When you see all services up and green, go to `http://localhost:8080` and sign in with your Okta account.
```

 {% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/okta-signin.png alt:"Okta Sign In Form" width:"400" %}{: .center-image }

 **IMPORTANT NOTE**: There is a potential issue observed for the blog service, as [Kubernetes probes](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/actuator.html#actuator.endpoints.kubernetes-probes) are enabled by default, the blog application might change its state to `OUT_OF_SERVICE` during start up and Eureka discards the following heartbeats with state `UP`. In that case, disable Kubernetes probes in the `docker-compose.yml` with the following environment variable:

```yml
services:
  blog:
    image: blog
    environment:

>     ...
>       - MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINT_HEALTH_PROBES_ENABLED=false
>     ...    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ...
      - MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINT_HEALTH_PROBES_ENABLED=false
```

I did have to add this to make `OUT_OF_SERVICE` go away.

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restart your microservices stack using Ctrl+C and run `docker compose up` again.

```

## Inspecting Elasticsearch index mapping

During start-up, Spring Data Elasticsearch will create the index for the entities annotated with `@Document`, deriving the mappings from the entity's annotations. But for the properties, if the field type is not specified, it defaults to FieldType.Auto. This means, that no mapping entry is written for the property and that Elasticsearch will add a mapping entry dynamically when the first data for this property is stored.

> As Kibana interface was configured in Docker Compose, before creating any entities, let's inspect the index mappings that were automatically created for the `blog` microservice. Go to [**http://localhost:5601**](http://localhost:5601), the Kibana dashboard. On the top left menu, go to **Management** > **Stack Management** > **Index Management** > **Indices** tab. Besides the `user` index, an index per entity should be listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Kibana interface was configured in Docker Compose, before creating any entities, let's inspect the index mappings that were automatically created for the `blog` microservice. Go to `http://localhost:5601`, the Kibana dashboard. On the top left menu, go to **Management** > **Stack Management** > **Index Management** > **Indices** tab. Besides the `user` index, an index per entity should be listed.
```

> {% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/kibana-indexes.png alt:"Kibana Indexes" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: When I first go to `http://localhost:5601`, I see the following screen.

<img width="656" alt="Screen Shot 2022-01-26 at 15 25 19" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/151257470-beed7d50-b038-4e74-b4e3-6f55ff66b5cc.png">

If I go to the Indices tab, I see "Error loading indices". 

<img width="1323" alt="Screen Shot 2022-01-26 at 15 27 22" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/151257709-2eaf9d7c-974c-470d-986c-25402af8f29a.png">

I'm using JHipster 7.6.0. Do you think this could be causing the issue? If so, we should file an issue and get it fixed.

Reviewer: This was caused by the Kibana vs Elasticsearch version mismatch.

{% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/entity-search-box.png alt:"Entity Search Box" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Go back to Kibana, and display the `Tag` mappings after persistence:

```json
{
  "mappings": {
    "_doc": {
      "properties": {
        "_class": {
          "type": "keyword",
          "index": false,
          "doc_values": false
        },
        "id": {
          "type": "text",
          "fields": {
            "keyword": {
              "type": "keyword",
              "ignore_above": 256
            }
          }
        },
        "name": {
          "type": "text",
          "fields": {
            "keyword": {
              "type": "keyword",
              "ignore_above": 256
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Now the `id` and `name` properties have been _dynamically mapped_ with _multi-field mapping_. For example, the `name` field is defined with type `text`, for full-text searches, and it defines a `name.keyword` sub-field for aggregations and sorting:

```json
"name": {
  "type": "text",
  "fields": {
    "keyword": {
      "type": "keyword",
      "ignore_above": 256
    }
  }
}
```

> It is often useful to index the same field in different ways for different purposes. Text fields are searchable by default, but by default are not available for aggregations, sorting, unless multi-field mapping is in place. There is another option for enabling sorting for text fields, which is the [**`fielddata` mapping parameter**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/text.html#fielddata-mapping-param), which will not be covered in this tutorial, as it is discouraged in the Elasticsearch documentation, because of high memory consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is often useful to index the same field in different ways for different purposes. Text fields are searchable by default, but by default are not available for aggregations, sorting, unless multi-field mapping is in place. There is another option for enabling sorting for text fields, which is the [`fielddata` mapping parameter](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/text.html#fielddata-mapping-param), which will not be covered in this tutorial, as it is discouraged in the Elasticsearch documentation, because of high memory consumption.
```

This config also tells JHipster to include the Elasticsearch dependencies in the `blog` microservice. JHipster generates the web layer with the entity resource class, and it optionally generates the service class too. Two of the key components that enable the Elasticsearch reactive integration are the `ReactiveElasticsearchClient` and the `ReactiveElasticsearchOperations`. A client is required to connect to an Elasticsearch cluster or node, and `*Operations` is the interface for the execution of CRUD and query commands. The third component is the entity `ReactiveElasticsearchRepository`, which can provide domain-specific search methods.

{% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/spring-data-collaboration.png alt:"Spring Data Collaboration" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

When using the starter dependency, `ReactiveElasticsearchRestClientAutoConfiguration` configures the reactive Elasticsearch client from the Spring Data Elasticsearch properties. `ElasticsearchDataAutoConfiguration` is the root configuration class that triggers the reactive search template initialization. Let's briefly describe each of the mentioned components.

> _The reactive client_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The reactive client
```

The `ReactiveElasticsearchClient` is based on Spring's WebClient and calls are directly operated on the reactive stack. The reactive client sends and receives high-level request and response objects. In this example, the reactive client is initialized from `spring.data.elasticsearch.client.reactive.*` properties. You can verify the Elasticsearch endpoints are set in the `docker-compose.yml` file for the `blog` service.

```yml
blog:
  image: blog
  environment:
    ...

>     - SPRING_DATA_ELASTICSEARCH_CLIENT_REACTIVE_ENDPOINTS=blog-elasticsearch:9200

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - SPRING_ELASTICSEARCH_URIS=http://blog-elasticsearch:9200
```

This is what Spring Boot 2.6 uses.

    ...
```

> _The operations abstraction_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The operations abstraction
```

`ReactiveElasticsearchOperations` is the gateway for executing high-level commands against an Elasticsearch cluster using the `ReactiveElasticsearchClient`.
The `ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate` is the default implementation of `ReactiveElasticsearchOperations`. Some high-level operations are `save`, `get`, `delete` and `search`, which accept the Spring Data Query types as parameters.

> _The entity search repository_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The entity search repository
```

```java
public interface TagSearchRepository extends ReactiveElasticsearchRepository<Tag, String>, TagSearchRepositoryInternal {}

interface TagSearchRepositoryInternal {
    Flux<Tag> search(String query, Pageable pageable);
}

class TagSearchRepositoryInternalImpl implements TagSearchRepositoryInternal {

    private final ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate reactiveElasticsearchTemplate;

    TagSearchRepositoryInternalImpl(ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate reactiveElasticsearchTemplate) {
        this.reactiveElasticsearchTemplate = reactiveElasticsearchTemplate;
    }

    @Override
    public Flux<Tag> search(String query, Pageable pageable) {
        List<FieldSortBuilder> builders = new SortToFieldSortBuilderConverter().convert(pageable.getSort());

        NativeSearchQueryBuilder queryBuilder = new NativeSearchQueryBuilder()
            .withQuery(queryStringQuery(query))
            .withPageable(PageRequest.of(pageable.getPageNumber(), pageable.getPageSize()));

        builders
            .stream()
            .forEach(builder -> {

>                 queryBuilder.withSort(builder);

Reviewer: This looks to be deprecated in the latest version. It seems that `withSorts()` is its replacement. Any chance you can create a PR for JHipster to fix it?

Author: Will do after sending this post revisions.

            });

        NativeSearchQuery nativeSearchQuery = queryBuilder.build();
        return reactiveElasticsearchTemplate.search(nativeSearchQuery, Tag.class).map(SearchHit::getContent);
    }
}
```

## Learn more about Elastic and JHipster

> JHipster helps to simplify the setup of Spring Boot applications or microservices with search capabilities. I hope you enjoyed this quick introduction to Elasticsearh integration options, and could taste the advantages of the Spring Data repository abstraction for encapsulating some basic Elasticsearch operations. Remember to check the [compatiblity matrix](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/elasticsearch/docs/current/reference/html/#preface.versions) to match the right Spring Data Elasticsearch dependency for your Elasticsearch version. Keep learning, and for more examples and recipes on Elasticsearch and Okta integrations for Spring Boot, check out the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JHipster helps to simplify the setup of Spring Boot applications or microservices with search capabilities. I hope you enjoyed this quick introduction to Elasticsearh integration options, and could taste the advantages of the Spring Data repository abstraction for encapsulating some basic Elasticsearch operations. Remember to check the [compatiblity matrix](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/elasticsearch/docs/current/reference/html/#preface.versions) to match the right Spring Data Elasticsearch dependency for your Elasticsearch version. 

Keep learning, and for more examples and recipes on Elasticsearch and Okta integrations for Spring Boot, check out the following links:
```

- [Full Stack Java with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster](/blog/2021/11/22/full-stack-java)
- [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)
- [Spring Boot and Okta in 2 Minutes](/blog/2020/11/24/spring-boot-okta)
- [Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices)
- [Elasticsearch Clients](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html)
- [Get Started with the ELK Stack](/blog/2019/09/26/get-started-elk-stack)

> You can find the Blog application code of this tutorial in [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-data-elasticsearch-example.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the source code for this tutorial in the [@oktadev/okta-spring-data-elasticsearch-example repository on GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-data-elasticsearch-example).
```

> Be sure to follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/oktadev) and subscribe to our [YouTube Channel](https://youtube.com/c/oktadev) so that you never miss any excellent content!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/oktadev) and subscribe to our [YouTube Channel](https://youtube.com/c/oktadev) so that you never miss any of our excellent content!
```

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "A Quick Guide to Elasticsearch for Spring Data and Spring Boot"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "A Quick Guide to Elasticsearch with Spring Data and Spring Boot"
```

author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor

> communities: [devops,security,mobile,.net,java,javascript,go,php,python,ruby]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
communities: [java]
```

How can be Elasticsearch integrated into a Spring Boot Application? What are the options for adding Elasticsearch to a Java application? This post will give you a quick introduction to Elasticsearch integration options.

**Prerequisites**:

- [HTTPie](https://httpie.io/)
- [JHipster 7](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/)

> - [Java 14+](https://openjdk.java.net/install/index.html)

Reviewer: Can we bump this to 17?

Author: > Can we bump this to 17?

I think the generator sets java 11, I have jhipster 7.5.0 and openjdk 17 in my environment and the pom.xml is generated with java 11, will double check

Reviewer: You're right. Java 11 is fine.

- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## Elasticsearch integration options for Spring Boot

For Java applications including Spring Boot applications, Elasticsearch provides the following [clients](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html) for integration:

[_Java Transport Client_](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-api/current/index.html)<br>
Deprecated in Elasticsearch 7.0.0. Provides a client object to execute all operations asynchronously, accepting a listener or returning a future.

[_Java REST Client_](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-rest/7.15/index.html)<br>
Composed by the Low Level REST Client and the High Level REST Client. The Low Level Client provides load balancing, failover, persistent connections, and request/response trace logging. The High Level Client works on top of the Low Level Client and is the replacement for the `TransportClient`. It depends on the Elasticsearch core and provides synchronous and asynchronous APIs.

> 

Reviewer: Turn into bullets by adding `-` before each line. No need to italicize. Bold is OK if you feel it's necessary. Versions may be hard to maintain long-term, but that's the case with most libraries.

Author: Done

[_Java API Client_](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-api-client/current/index.html)<br>
The new client library, independent from Elasticsearch core, provides strongly typed requests and responses, blocking and asynchronous versions for all APIs, fluent builders and functional patterns, jackson and JSON-b support.

> ### Spring Data Elasticsearch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Hello Spring Data Elasticsearch!
```

> Spring Data Elasticsearch is another integration option that adds the Spring Repository abstraction as the data access layer. Operations are sent through a client connected to the Elasticsearch node. With Spring Data, the High Level REST Client is the default client, although Elasticsearch documentation states that this client is deprecated in favor of the Java API Client since version 7.15. The Java API Client is not listed as a supported client yet. The Java Transport Client is still supported in Spring Data, but the general recommendation is to use the High Level Client. Instead of calling the Elasticsearch APIs directly, the repository and rest template abstractions provide a simplified interface for document operations, encapsulating API request/response processing, and exposing a query interface that has multiple implementations for different levels of query complexity. Through the starter dependency, it can also handle client autoconfiguration and automatic document index mapping for simple use cases.

Reviewer: > Spring Repository abstraction as the data access layer

Do you mean?

> Spring repository abstraction at the search layer with the latest and greatest info?

Author: Added

Besides the High Level REST Client support, Spring Data provides the [_Reactive Client_](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/elasticsearch/docs/current/reference/html/#elasticsearch.clients.reactive), a non-official driver based on WebClient, with calls operated directly on the reactive stack. The Reactive Client also depends on the Elasticsearch core as it is designed for handling Elasicsearch request/response types.

> ## A JHipster Spring Boot application with Spring Data Elasticsearch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Build an application with Spring Data Elasticsearch
```

JHipster provides the Elasticsearch option to add search capabilities on top of your database. The integration is based on Spring Data Elasticsearch repositories, so let's generate a reactive Blog application to explore what the generator provides. The Blog application built in this tutorial is based on the JHipster sample [reactive-ms.jdl](https://github.com/jhipster/jdl-samples/blob/main/reactive-ms.jdl), but adding Maven, MongoDB (Elasticsearch integration only works with SQL databases and MongoDB), Bootstrap pagination, Okta authentication, and Kibana for index mapping inspection.

> Start by creating a `spring-data-elasticsearch` folder for the project, get the application JDL from the [Github](https://github.com/indiepopart/spring-data-elasticsearch.git) repository, and generate the application with JHipster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by creating a `spring-data-elasticsearch` folder for the project, fetch the application JDL from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-data-elasticsearch-example), and generate the application with JHipster:
```

```shell
mkdir spring-data-elasticsearch
cd spring-data-elasticsearch

> https -d https://raw.githubusercontent.com/indiepopart/spring-data-elasticsearch/5380a940a0364176a5d56349d3471f60a0834ed7/blog-reactive-ms.jdl

Reviewer: I like this! If you use `https`, you don't need `https://` on the URL. Is it possible to link to your `main` branch instead of a commit?

Reviewer: URL should be updated to be `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oktadev/okta-spring-data-elasticsearch-example/main/blog-reactive-ms.jdl`

Author: Updated

jhipster jdl blog-reactive-ms.jdl
```

{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster" %}

> Follow the process above for creating 2 applications in Okta, the gateway application, and the blog application.

Reviewer: If the number is < 10, spell it out. 2 > two

Author: The comment was removed

```shell
cd gateway
okta apps create jhipster
```

> Make sure to set up http://localhost:8081/login/oauth2/code/oidc with port 8081 as Redirect URI for blog microservice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to use `http://localhost:8081/login/oauth2/code/oidc` with port 8081 as the login redirect URI for the blog microservice.
```

How?

Author: The comment was removed

```shell
cd blog
okta apps create jhipster
```

> Find the `blog` credentials in the files `blog/.okta.env` and  `gateway/.okta.env`.

Reviewer: After reading through this section, I realized you don't need to separate applications, you just need multiple redirect URIs for the first app you created. This should display both redirects for the first app.

```
{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster"
   loginRedirectUri="http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc,http://localhost:8081/login/oauth2/code/oidc,http://localhost:8761/login/oauth2/code/oidc"
   logoutRedirectUri="http://localhost:8080,http://localhost:8081,http://localhost:8761" %}
```

Reviewer: The 8761 URL is for the registry because this setting will cause all apps to use Okta.

Author: I thought a client (application) must be created for each service. Would you please confirm again a single client/application in Okta is ok for multiple apps?

Reviewer: You don't need to create an application for each service, you just need to add redirects for each service to the main app. When you run everything in Keycloak, you're only using a single OIDC app.

Author: Done

The JHipster Registry is also a Spring Cloud Config server, and by default, it is configured with the profiles `dev` and `native`, which means the configuration will be provided from the location `docker-compose/central-server/config`. Let's add some files so it can provide the OAuth2 configuration to the microservices.
Add the file `docker-compose/central-server-config/blog-prod.yml` with the following content:

```yml
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: {blogClientId}
            client-secret: {blogClientSecret}
```

Add also the file `docker-compose/central-server-config/gateway-prod.yml` with the following content:

```yml
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          oidc:
            issuer-uri: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: {gatewayClientId}
            client-secret: {gatewayClientSecret}

> ```

Reviewer: Why create two files? It seems like it might just be easier to modify `central-server-config/application.yml`.

Author: I though a client per application is required. Would you please reconfirm a single Okta client is ok for multiple apps?  the gateway, jhipster and the service

Reviewer: Yes. A single client will work. That's what I do in all my tutorials.

For the experimentation in this tutorial, configure the Kibana interface for Elasticsearch, which will allow visualizations of the Elasticsearch data.
Edit `docker-compose/docker-compose.yml` and add the Kibana service like this:

```yml

> services:

Reviewer: Add `...` on its own line to help indicate this is a top-level key.

Author: Done

  blog-kibana:
     image: docker.elastic.co/kibana/kibana:7.13.3
     ports:
       - 5601:5601
     environment:
       ELASTICSEARCH_URL: http://blog-elasticsearch:9200
       ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS: '["http://blog-elasticsearch:9200"]'
```

> Also add the following additional configuration to the elasticsearch service, to expose the ports to the local host for sending APIs requests:

Reviewer: elasticsearch > `blog-elasticsearch`

Author: Updated

```yml
services:
  blog-elasticsearch:
    ...
    ports:
      - 9200:9200
```

> Create the applications container image:

Reviewer: Create each applications'

Author: Updated

```shell
cd blog
./mvnw -DskipTests -ntp -Pprod verify jib:dockerBuild
```

```shell
cd gateway
./mvnw -DskipTests -ntp -Pprod verify jib:dockerBuild
```

Run the architecture with Docker Compose:

```shell
cd docker-compose

> docker compose up

Reviewer: This doesn't work for me. When I log in to the JHipster Registry, I see the blog service with a `OUT_OF_SERVICE` status. The Docker dashboard shows it running, but it doesn't work if I navigate to the blog entities via `http://localhost:8080`. I am on a slow internet connection so that might have something to do with it.

Author: I am not sure why it happens, after I changed the code to use a single Okta client app, I could replicate the error. Right now, if I set MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINT_HEALTH_PROBES_ENABLED=false for the blog service, it does not happen any more. Seems related to:
https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-netflix/issues/3941

"The microservices not working first send a OUT_OF_SERIVCE. So far so good.Problem is, Eureka discards all of the following Heartbeats with state UP and the service is in OUT_OF_SERVICE forever."

https://spring.io/blog/2020/03/25/liveness-and-readiness-probes-with-spring-boot

Do I just add this config to the blog post and code?

Reviewer: I would add it as a potential issue that can happen in the blog post. It's possible we could add some waits in the `docker-compose.yml` file that starts the services in a certain order. I'm not sure. I can QA again when you're ready. I'm back home in the US and have faster internet speeds now.

Author: I tried depends_on and it did not work. Maybe because it does not wait for the service to be ready, only to be started. Will add the potential issue note.

```

>  Access the JHipster Registry at http://localhost:8761 and sign in with user=admin, password=admin. When you see all services up and green, go to http://localhost:8080 and sign in with your Okta account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Access the JHipster Registry at `http://localhost:8761` and sign in with `user=admin, password=admin`. When you see all services up and green, go to `http://localhost:8080` and sign in with your Okta credentials.
```

Reviewer: admin/admin should be "your Okta credentials" if you configure Okta in the main `application.yml` for config server.

Author: Updated

 {% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/okta-signin.png alt:"Okta Sign In Form" width:"400" %}{: .center-image }

## Inspecting Elasticsearch index mapping

> During start-up, Spring Data Elasticsearch will create the index for the entities annotated with `@Document`, deriving the mappings from the entity's annotations. But for the properties, if the field type is not specified, it defaults to FieldType.Auto. This means, that no mapping entry is written for the property and that Elasticsearch will add a mapping entry dynamically when the first data for this property is stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During start-up, Elasticsearch will create the index for the entities annotated with `@Document`, deriving the mappings from the entity's annotations. But for the properties, if the field type is not specified, it defaults to FieldType.Auto. This means, that no mapping entry is written for the property and that Elasticsearch will add a mapping entry dynamically when the first data for this property is stored.
```

Author: From the manuals, it is Spring Data who creates the indexes if they don't exist https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/elasticsearch/docs/current/reference/html/#elasticsearch.repositories.autocreation

> As Kibana interface was configured in Docker Compose, before creating any entities, let's inspect the index mappings that were automatically created for the `blog` microservice. Go to http://localhost:9200, the Kibana home. Then go to **Management** > **Stack Management** > **Index Management** > **Indices** tab. Besides the `user` index, an index per entity should be listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Kibana interface was configured in Docker Compose, before creating any entities, let's inspect the index mappings that were automatically created for the `blog` microservice. Go to `http://localhost:9200`, the Kibana dashboard. Then go to **Management** > **Stack Management** > **Index Management** > **Indices** tab. Besides the `user` index, an index per entity should be listed.
```

{% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/kibana-indexes.png alt:"Kibana Indexes" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Choose for example the `tag` index. The **Mappings** tab before persisting any instance will look like the following:

```json
{
  "mappings": {
    "_doc": {
      "properties": {
        "_class": {
          "type": "keyword",
          "index": false,
          "doc_values": false
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

As you can see, properties are not mapped yet.

> Go back to the application, and in the top-right menu go to Entities > Tag and create some `Tag` entities. Then create some `Blog` and `Post` entities as well. As you can see, a search box is present on the entity list page. Go ahead and test the search functionality. The results page will return the matches with pagination.

Reviewer: Bold links please.

Author: Updated

          }
        },
        "name": {
          "type": "text",
          "fields": {
            "keyword": {
              "type": "keyword",
              "ignore_above": 256
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Now the `id` and `name` properties have been _dynamically mapped_ with _multi-field mapping_. For example, the `name` field is defined with type `text`, for full-text searches, and it defines a `name.keyword` sub-field for aggregations and sorting:

```json
"name": {
  "type": "text",
  "fields": {
    "keyword": {
      "type": "keyword",
      "ignore_above": 256
    }
  }
}
```

It is often useful to index the same field in different ways for different purposes. Text fields are searchable by default, but by default are not available for aggregations, sorting, unless multi-field mapping is in place. There is another option for enabling sorting for text fields, which is the [`fielddata` mapping parameter](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/text.html#fielddata-mapping-param), which will not be covered in this tutorial, as it is discouraged in the Elasticsearch documentation, because of high memory consumption.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line break.

Author: Removed

Elasticsearch exposes several APIs, and the Index APIs allow managing individual indices, index settings, aliases, mappings, and index templates. Although Kibana is a user-friendly front-end, you can also query the index mappings through the Index APIs, with an HTTPie command like the following:

```shell

> http localhost:9200/tag/_mapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
http :9200/tag/_mapping
```

```

> The output should look the same as the mapping visualized in Kibana.

Reviewer: A screenshot would look excellent here! 🤩

Author: Added

## Key components in reactive Spring Data Elasticsearch

> As mentioned before, the Blog application is reactive, and that was defined in the JDL file with `reactive true` in the `gateway` and `blog` application configuration. That also signals JHipster generators to include the reactive Elasticsearch dependencies in the `blog` microservice. JHipster generates the web layer with the entity resource class, and it optionally generates the service class for abstracting from the data layer. Two of the key components that enable the Elasticsearch reactive integration are the `ReactiveElasticsearchClient` and the `ReactiveElasticsearchOperations`. A client is required to connect to an Elasticsearch cluster or node, and operations is the interface for the execution of CRUD and query commands. The third component is the entity `ReactiveElasticsearchRepository`, which can provide domain-specific search methods. Let's briefly describe each of these components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned before, the `blog` application is reactive, and that's because the JDL file had `reactive true` in its `gateway` and `blog` application configurations. 

This config also tels JHipster to include the Elasticsearch dependencies in the `blog` microservice. JHipster generates the web layer with the entity resource class, and it optionally generates the service class too. Two of the key components that enable the Elasticsearch reactive integration are the `ReactiveElasticsearchClient` and the `ReactiveElasticsearchOperations`. A client is required to connect to an Elasticsearch cluster or node, and `*Operations` is the interface for the execution of CRUD and query commands. The third component is the entity `ReactiveElasticsearchRepository`, which can provide domain-specific search methods. Let's briefly describe each of these components.
```

{% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/spring-data-collaboration.png alt:"Spring Data Collaboration" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

> _The reactive client_<br>

Reviewer: `<br>` shouldn't be needed

Author: Removed

> The `ReactiveElasticsearchClient` is based on WebClient and calls are directly operated on the reactive stack. The reactive client sends and receives High Level request and response objects. In this example, the reactive client is initialized from `spring.data.elasticsearch.client.reactive.*` properties. You can verify the Elasticsearch endpoints are set in the `docker-compose.yml` file for the `blog` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ReactiveElasticsearchClient` is based on Spring's WebClient and calls are directly operated on the reactive stack. The reactive client sends and receives high-level request and response objects. In this example, the reactive client is initialized from `spring.data.elasticsearch.client.reactive.*` properties. You can verify the Elasticsearch endpoints are set in the `docker-compose.yml` file for the `blog` service.
```

```yml
blog:
  image: blog
  environment:
    ...
    - SPRING_DATA_ELASTICSEARCH_CLIENT_REACTIVE_ENDPOINTS=blog-elasticsearch:9200
    ...
```

> _The operations abstraction_<br>

Reviewer: `<br>` not needed AFAIK

Author: Removed

`ReactiveElasticsearchOperations` is the gateway for executing high-level commands against an Elasticsearch cluster using the `ReactiveElasticsearchClient`.
The `ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate` is the default implementation of `ReactiveElasticsearchOperations`. Some high-level operations are `save`, `get`, `delete` and `search`, which accept the Spring Data Query types as parameters.

> _The entity search repository_<br>

Reviewer: `<br>` not needed

Author: Removed

The entity search repository enables the document CRUD and search operations in the application. The search repository extends `ReactiveElasticsearchRepository`, the persistence technology-specific abstraction, that builds on the core repository support utilizing operations provided through the `ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate` executed by the `ReactiveElasticsearchClient`. JHipster generates a search repository for the entities specified in the `search` option in the JDL. In the example, all entities are set to be searchable in Elasticsearch:

```
application {
  config {
    baseName blog
    reactive true
    ...
    searchEngine elasticsearch
  }
  ...
  search * with elasticsearch
}
```

> When the entity in the JDL definition requires the Elasticsearch engine, and also pagination, the entity search repository is generated with pagination and sorting options. For example, the generated TagSearchRepository adds a custom `search` method that assembles a native search query and passes it to the `ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate`:

Reviewer: `search` -> `search()`

Author: Updated

interface TagSearchRepositoryInternal {
    Flux<Tag> search(String query, Pageable pageable);
}

class TagSearchRepositoryInternalImpl implements TagSearchRepositoryInternal {

    private final ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate reactiveElasticsearchTemplate;

    TagSearchRepositoryInternalImpl(ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate reactiveElasticsearchTemplate) {
        this.reactiveElasticsearchTemplate = reactiveElasticsearchTemplate;
    }

    @Override
    public Flux<Tag> search(String query, Pageable pageable) {
        List<FieldSortBuilder> builders = new SortToFieldSortBuilderConverter().convert(pageable.getSort());

        NativeSearchQueryBuilder queryBuilder = new NativeSearchQueryBuilder()
            .withQuery(queryStringQuery(query))
            .withPageable(PageRequest.of(pageable.getPageNumber(), pageable.getPageSize()));

        builders
            .stream()
            .forEach(builder -> {
                queryBuilder.withSort(builder);
            });

        NativeSearchQuery nativeSearchQuery = queryBuilder.build();
        return reactiveElasticsearchTemplate.search(nativeSearchQuery, Tag.class).map(SearchHit::getContent);
    }
}
```

> _Autoconfiguration_<br>

Reviewer: This seems out of place. Should it be a heading?

Author: Moved the comment above.

`ReactiveElasticsearchRestClientAutoConfiguration` configures the reactive Elasticsearch client from the Spring Data Elasticsearch properties. `ElasticsearchDataAutoConfiguration` is the root configuration class that triggers the reactive search template initialization.

> ## Learn more about Spring Data Elasticsearch and Okta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn more about Elastic and JHipster
```

JHipster helps to simplify the setup of Spring Boot applications or microservices with search capabilities. I hope you enjoyed this quick introduction to Elasticsearh integration options, and could taste the advantages of the Spring Data repository abstraction for encapsulating some basic Elasticsearch operations. Remember to check the [compatiblity matrix](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/elasticsearch/docs/current/reference/html/#preface.versions) to match the right Spring Data Elasticsearch dependency for your Elasticsearch version. Keep learning, and for more examples and recipes on Elasticsearch and Okta integrations for Spring Boot, check out the following links:

- [Elasticsearch Clients](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html)
- [Elasticsearch Mapping Multi-Fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/multi-fields.html)
- [Get Started with the ELK Stack](/blog/2019/09/26/get-started-elk-stack)
- [Spring Boot and Okta in 2 Minutes](/blog/2020/11/24/spring-boot-okta)
- [Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices)

> - [Elasticsearh REST APIs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rest-apis.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Elasticsearch REST APIs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rest-apis.html)
```

More JHipster!

Reviewer: It won't let me comment from below, so I'll try from above. I'd recommend changing the line below to:

> You can find the source code of this tutorial on GitHub in the [okta-word1-word2-example](URL) repo. 

Also needs "follow us" links for Twitter, LinkedIn, and YouTube.

> You can find the Blog application code of this tutorial in [GitHub](https://github.com/indiepopart/spring-data-elasticsearch).

Reviewer: Now at https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-data-elasticsearch-example.

Author: Updated

---
layout: blog_post
title: "A Quick Guide to Elasticsearch with Spring Data and Spring Boot"
author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor
communities: [java]
description: ""
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
---

> For sure you have heard about Elasticsearch or the Elastic Stack. It seems it started as a search engine based on Lucene, an open-source search engine library built by Shay Banon to index his wife's cooking recipes. From the early days, Elasticsearch has gone a long way and evolved into the Elastic Stack, a great suite for taking data from any source, search, analyze and visualize it in near real-time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You've probably heard of Elasticsearch or the Elastic Stack. The project started as a search engine based on [Lucene](https://lucene.apache.org/), an open-source search engine library built by Shay Banon to index his wife's cooking recipes. Since its early days, Elasticsearch has come a long way and has evolved into the [Elastic Stack](https://www.elastic.co/elastic-stack), a great suite for taking data from any source, in order to search, analyze, and visualize it in near real-time.
```
edits for grammar, style-guide, and idiomatic correctness, also added product links since we are no longer measured on sign-ups/leads

> Elasticsearch is a distributed document store, data is serialized as JSON documents and stored distributed across cluster nodes. The _inverted index_ is a data structure that lists every unique word that appears in any document, and also the documents each word appears in. This gives support to fast full-text searches, a feature not supported or partially supported by database engines. The index is a collection of documents and each document is a collection of fields. In turn, each field can be indexed in an optimal data structure, for example, an inverted index for text fields, but a BKD tree for a numeric field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch is a distributed document store; data is serialized as JSON documents and stored in a distributed way across cluster nodes. The _inverted index_  refers to a data structure that lists every unique word appearing in any document, and also indicates the documents in which each word appears. This  enables fast full-text searches, a feature not supported or only partially supported by database engines. The index is a collection of documents and each document is a collection of fields. In turn, each field can be indexed in an optimal data structure; for example, an inverted index for text fields, but a BKD tree for a numeric field.
```
semi-colon works well here to join two different statements in one sentence. Other edits add clarity and readability and style guide compliance

Author: Hi Havi, I would like to keep this sentence "The _inverted index_ is a data structure that lists every unique word that appears in any document, and also lists the documents in which each word appears" I am trying to give a brief "inverted index" definition. I made the other changes.

> How can be Elasticsearch integrated into a Spring Boot Application? What are the options for adding Elasticsearch to a Java application? This post will give you a quick introduction to Elasticsearch integration options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How can be Elasticsearch integrated into a Spring Boot application? What are the options for adding Elasticsearch to a Java app? This post will give you a quick introduction to Elasticsearch integration options.
```
style guide capitalization

**This tutorial was created with the following frameworks and tools**:

- [HTTPie 3.0.2](https://httpie.io/)
- [JHipster 7.6.0](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/)
- [Java OpenJDK 11](https://jdk.java.net/java-se-ri/11)
- [Okta CLI 0.9.0](https://cli.okta.com)
- [Docker 20.10.7](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## Elasticsearch integration options for Spring Boot

For Java applications including Spring Boot applications, Elasticsearch provides the following [clients](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html) for integration:

- [Java Transport Client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-api/current/index.html): Deprecated in Elasticsearch 7.0.0. Provides a client object to execute all operations asynchronously, accepting a listener or returning a future.

> - [Java REST Client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-rest/7.15/index.html): Composed by the Low Level REST Client and the High Level REST Client. The Low Level Client provides load balancing, failover, persistent connections, and request/response trace logging. The High Level Client works on top of the Low Level Client and is the replacement for the `TransportClient`. It depends on the Elasticsearch core and provides synchronous and asynchronous APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Java REST Client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-rest/7.15/index.html): Composed of the Low Level REST Client and the High Level REST Client. The Low Level Client provides load balancing, failover, persistent connections, and request/response trace logging. The High Level Client works on top of the Low Level Client and is the replacement for the `TransportClient`. It depends on the Elasticsearch core and provides synchronous and asynchronous APIs.
```
"composed of" is idiomatically correct

> - [Java API Client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-api-client/current/index.html): The new client library, independent from Elasticsearch core, provides strongly typed requests and responses, blocking and asynchronous versions for all APIs, fluent builders and functional patterns, jackson and JSON-b support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Java API Client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-api-client/current/index.html): The new client library, independent from Elasticsearch core, provides strongly typed requests and responses, blocking and asynchronous versions for all APIs, fluent builders and functional patterns, as well as jackson and JSON-b support.
```
style guidance is to add "and" or another connector before the final item in the series

## Hello Spring Data Elasticsearch!

> Spring Data Elasticsearch is another integration option that adds the Spring Repository abstraction at the search layer, providing access and search functionality for domain objects stored in Elasticsearch. Operations are sent through a client connected to the Elasticsearch node. With Spring Data, the High Level REST Client is the default client, although Elasticsearch documentation states that this client is deprecated in favor of the Java API Client since version 7.15. The Java API Client is not listed as a supported client yet. The Java Transport Client is still supported in Spring Data, but the general recommendation is to use the High Level Client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spring Data Elasticsearch is another integration option that adds the Spring Repository abstraction at the search layer, providing access and search functionality for domain objects stored in Elasticsearch. Operations are sent through a client connected to the Elasticsearch node. With Spring Data, the High Level REST Client is the default client, although Elasticsearch documentation states that it's been deprecated in favor of the Java API Client since version 7.15. The Java API Client is not listed as a supported client yet. In the meantime, the Java Transport Client is still supported in Spring Data, but the general recommendation is to use the High Level Client.
```
clarity

> Instead of calling the Elasticsearch APIs directly, the repository and rest template abstractions provide a simplified interface for document operations, encapsulating API request/response processing, and exposing a query interface that has multiple implementations for different levels of query complexity. Through the starter dependency, it can also handle client autoconfiguration and automatic document index mapping for simple use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of calling the Elasticsearch APIs directly, the repository and REST template abstractions provide a simplified interface for document operations, encapsulating API request/response processing, and exposing a query interface that has multiple implementations for different levels of query complexity. Through the starter dependency, it can also handle client auto-configuration and automatic document index mapping for simple use cases.
```
uppercase REST

> Besides the high-level REST client support, Spring Data provides the [Reactive Client](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/elasticsearch/docs/current/reference/html/#elasticsearch.clients.reactive), a non-official driver based on WebClient, with calls operated directly on the reactive stack. The Reactive Client also depends on the Elasticsearch core as it is designed for handling Elasicsearch request/response types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Besides the high-level REST client support, Spring Data provides the [Reactive Client](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/elasticsearch/docs/current/reference/html/#elasticsearch.clients.reactive), a non-official driver based on WebClient, with calls operated directly on the Reactive Stack. The Reactive Client also depends on the Elasticsearch core, as it is designed for handling Elasticsearch request/response types.
```
capitalize Reactive Stack as a product name. typo.

## Build an application with Spring Data Elasticsearch

> JHipster provides the Elasticsearch option to add search capabilities on top of your database. The integration is based on Spring Data Elasticsearch repositories, so let's generate a reactive Blog application to explore what the generator provides. The Blog application built in this tutorial is based on the JHipster sample [reactive-ms.jdl](https://github.com/jhipster/jdl-samples/blob/main/reactive-ms.jdl), but adding Maven, MongoDB (Elasticsearch integration only works with SQL databases and MongoDB), Bootstrap pagination, Okta authentication, and Kibana for index mapping inspection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JHipster provides the Elasticsearch option to add search capabilities on top of your database. The integration is based on Spring Data Elasticsearch repositories, so let's generate a reactive blog application to explore what the generator provides. The blog application built in this tutorial is based on the JHipster sample [reactive-ms.jdl](https://github.com/jhipster/jdl-samples/blob/main/reactive-ms.jdl), but adding Maven, MongoDB (Elasticsearch integration only works with SQL databases and MongoDB), Bootstrap pagination, Okta authentication, and Kibana for index mapping inspection.
```
lowercase B in blog - style guide

> JHipster has a [quick setup](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/#local-installation-with-npm-recommended-for-normal-users) you can follow to setup your environment. For installing Node.js, I like [NVM (Node Version Manager)](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm/blob/master/README.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JHipster has a [quick setup](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/#local-installation-with-npm-recommended-for-normal-users) you can follow to set up your environment. For installing Node.js, I like [NVM (Node Version Manager)](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm/blob/master/README.md)
```
verb form is two words: set up. noun is one word: setup

            issuer-uri: $SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_PROVIDER_OIDC_ISSUER_URI
        registration:
          oidc:
            client-id: $SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_ID
            client-secret: $SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET\" >> docker-compose/central-server-config/application.yml
```

For the experiment in this tutorial, configure the Kibana interface for Elasticsearch, which will allow visualizations of the Elasticsearch data.
Edit `docker-compose/docker-compose.yml` and add the Kibana service like this:

```yml
services:
  ...  
  blog-kibana:
     image: docker.elastic.co/kibana/kibana:7.15.2
     ports:
       - 5601:5601
     environment:
       ELASTICSEARCH_URL: http://blog-elasticsearch:9200
       ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS: '["http://blog-elasticsearch:9200"]'
```
**NOTE**: The Kibana version must match the version of Elasticsearch that's used by the `blog-elasticsearch` image.

Also add the following additional configuration to the `blog-elasticsearch` service, to expose the ports to the local host for sending APIs requests:

```yml
services:
  blog-elasticsearch:
    ...
    ports:
      - 9200:9200
```

> Remove the Keycloak service at the bottom, as Okta will be used as Identity Provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remove the Keycloak service at the bottom, as Okta will be used as the identity provider (IdP).
```
no need to capitalize

> Create each applications' container image:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create each application's container image:
```
possessive form for a single application

```shell
cd blog
./mvnw -DskipTests -ntp -Pprod verify jib:dockerBuild
```

```shell
cd gateway
./mvnw -DskipTests -ntp -Pprod verify jib:dockerBuild
```

Run all your images with Docker Compose:

```shell
cd ../docker-compose
docker compose up
```
 Access the JHipster Registry at `http://localhost:8761` and sign in with your Okta credentials. When you see all services up and green, go to `http://localhost:8080` and sign in with your Okta account.

 {% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/okta-signin.png alt:"Okta Sign In Form" width:"400" %}{: .center-image }

>  **IMPORTANT NOTE**: There is a potential issue observed for the blog service, as [Kubernetes probes](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/actuator.html#actuator.endpoints.kubernetes-probes) are enabled by default, the blog application might change its state to `OUT_OF_SERVICE` during start up and Eureka discards the following heartbeats with state `UP`. In that case, disable Kubernetes probes in the `docker-compose.yml` with the following environment variable:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 **IMPORTANT NOTE**: There is a potential issue observed for the blog service. As [Kubernetes probes](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/actuator.html#actuator.endpoints.kubernetes-probes) are enabled by default, the blog application might change its state to `OUT_OF_SERVICE` during start up and Eureka might discard the following heartbeats with state `UP`. In this case, disable Kubernetes probes in the `docker-compose.yml` with the following environment variable:
```
simplify by making two sentences. Should "state `UP`"  be "start `UP`" in this sentence?

Author: Hi Havi, no, the value of the "state" is "UP"

```yml
services:
  blog:
    image: blog
    environment:
      ...
      - MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINT_HEALTH_PROBES_ENABLED=false
```
Restart your microservices stack using Ctrl+C and run `docker compose up` again.

## Inspecting Elasticsearch index mapping

> During start-up, Spring Data Elasticsearch will create the index for the entities annotated with `@Document`, deriving the mappings from the entity's annotations. But for the properties, if the field type is not specified, it defaults to FieldType.Auto. This means, that no mapping entry is written for the property and that Elasticsearch will add a mapping entry dynamically when the first data for this property is stored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During startup, Spring Data Elasticsearch will create the index for the entities annotated with `@Document`, deriving the mappings from the entity's annotations. But for the properties, if the field type is not specified, it will default to FieldType.Auto. This means that no mapping entry is written for the property and that Elasticsearch will add a mapping entry dynamically when the first data for this property is stored.
```
style edits and tense consistency

> As Kibana interface was configured in Docker Compose, before creating any entities, let's inspect the index mappings that were automatically created for the `blog` microservice. Go to `http://localhost:5601`, the Kibana dashboard. On the top left menu, go to **Management** > **Stack Management** > **Index Management** > **Indices** tab. Besides the `user` index, an index per entity should be listed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As our Kibana interface was configured in Docker Compose, before creating any entities, let's inspect the index mappings that were automatically created for the `blog` microservice. Go to `http://localhost:5601`, the Kibana dashboard. On the top left menu, go to **Management** > **Stack Management** > **Index Management** > **Indices** tab. Besides the `user` index, an index per entity should be listed.
```

{% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/kibana-indexes.png alt:"Kibana Indexes" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Choose for example the `tag` index. The **Mappings** tab before persisting any instance will look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Choose for example the `tag` index. Before persisting any instance, the **Mappings** tab will look like the following:
```
better flow

```json
{
  "mappings": {
    "_doc": {
      "properties": {
        "_class": {
          "type": "keyword",
          "index": false,
          "doc_values": false
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

As you can see, properties are not mapped yet.

> Go back to the application, and in the top-right menu go to **Entities** > **Tag** and create some `Tag` entities. Then create some `Blog` and `Post` entities as well. As you can see, a search box is present on the entity list page. Go ahead and test the search functionality. The results page will return the matches with pagination.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go back to the application, and in the top-right menu go to **Entities** > **Tag** and create some `Tag` entities. Then create some `Blog` and `Post` entities as well. You'll see that a search box is present on the entity list page. Go ahead and test the search functionality. The results page will return the matches with pagination.
```
Avoids repetition of the sentence opening

{% img blog/spring-data-elasticsearch/entity-search-box.png alt:"Entity Search Box" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Go back to Kibana, and display the `Tag` mappings after persistence:

```json
{
  "mappings": {
    "_doc": {
      "properties": {
        "_class": {
          "type": "keyword",
          "index": false,
          "doc_values": false
        },
        "id": {
          "type": "text",
          "fields": {
            "keyword": {
              "type": "keyword",
              "ignore_above": 256
            }
          }
        },
        "name": {
          "type": "text",
          "fields": {
            "keyword": {
              "type": "keyword",
              "ignore_above": 256
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Now the `id` and `name` properties have been _dynamically mapped_ with _multi-field mapping_. For example, the `name` field is defined with type `text`, for full-text searches, and it defines a `name.keyword` sub-field for aggregations and sorting:

```json
"name": {
  "type": "text",
  "fields": {
    "keyword": {
      "type": "keyword",
      "ignore_above": 256
    }
  }
}
```

> It is often useful to index the same field in different ways for different purposes. Text fields are searchable by default, but by default are not available for aggregations, sorting, unless multi-field mapping is in place. There is another option for enabling sorting for text fields, which is the [`fielddata` mapping parameter](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/text.html#fielddata-mapping-param), which will not be covered in this tutorial, as it is discouraged in the Elasticsearch documentation, because of high memory consumption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is often useful to index the same field in different ways for different purposes. Text fields are searchable by default, but by default are not available for aggregations, sorting, unless multi-field mapping is in place. There is another option for enabling sorting for text fields, which is the [`fielddata` mapping parameter](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/text.html#fielddata-mapping-param). This option will not be covered in our tutorial, as it is discouraged in the Elasticsearch documentation, because of high memory consumption.
```
Make two sentences for ease of reading.

    ...
```

### The operations abstraction

`ReactiveElasticsearchOperations` is the gateway for executing high-level commands against an Elasticsearch cluster using the `ReactiveElasticsearchClient`.
The `ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate` is the default implementation of `ReactiveElasticsearchOperations`. Some high-level operations are `save`, `get`, `delete` and `search`, which accept the Spring Data Query types as parameters.

### The entity search repository

The entity search repository enables the document CRUD and search operations in the application. The search repository extends `ReactiveElasticsearchRepository`, the persistence technology-specific abstraction, that builds on the core repository support utilizing operations provided through the `ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate` executed by the `ReactiveElasticsearchClient`. JHipster generates a search repository for the entities specified in the `search` option in the JDL. In the example, all entities are set to be searchable in Elasticsearch:

```
application {
  config {
    baseName blog
    reactive true
    ...
    searchEngine elasticsearch
  }
  ...
  search * with elasticsearch
}
```

> When the entity in the JDL definition requires the Elasticsearch engine, and also pagination, the entity search repository is generated with pagination and sorting options. For example, the generated TagSearchRepository adds a custom `search()` method that assembles a native search query and passes it to the `ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the entity in the JDL definition requires the Elasticsearch engine, and also pagination, the entity search repository is generated with pagination and sorting options. For example, the generated `TagSearchRepository` adds a custom `search()` method that assembles a native search query and passes it to the `ReactiveElasticsearchTemplate`:
```
This looks like code, but maybe I'm wrong to add `` - ?
